SunPy 0.9 Released
==================

.. post:: April 24, 2018
   :author: Stuart Mumford
   :tags: sunpy
   :category: Release

The SunPy project is very happy to announce the release of SunPy 0.9, the latest
release of the SunPy core package.

SunPy 0.9 brings improved support for downloading data from the JSOC and
bugfixes compared to the 0.8.x series of releases. The 0.9.x series will be the
last series of SunPy releases to support Python 2. This is because Python 2
`will not be maintained after 2019 <https://python3statement.org/>`_. The 0.9.x
series will receive bugfixs only up until the and of life of Python 2 (around 18
months). No new functionality will be added to the 0.9.x series, which will also
be the last version to include `sunpy.spectra`, `sunpy.lightcurve` and
`sunpy.wcs`, all of which were deprecated in 0.8.

SunPy 1.0 and higher will support Python 3 only. All new
functionality will be available only in SunPy 1.0 and higher.

SunPy v0.9.0 contains 807 commits in 147 merged pull requests closing 310
issues from 31 people, 19 of which are first time contributors to SunPy.

The people who have contributed to the code for this release are

- Nabil Freij
- Stuart Mumford
- Nitin Choudhary
- David Stansby  *
- Prateek Chanda
- Jack Ireland
- Daniel Ryan
- Himanshu  *
- Yash Jain  *
- James Paul Mason  *
- Michael Charlton
- Vishnunarayan K I.  *
- Swapnil Sharma  *
- Albert Y. Shih
- David Pérez-Suárez
- Shresth Verma  *
- Sanjeev Dubey  *
- Brigitta Sipocz
- Andrew Leonard
- Nick Murphy  *
- Shane Maloney
- Carlos Molina  *
- Yash Kothari  *
- Dang Trung Kien  *
- Gulshan Mittal  *
- Rajasekhar Reddy Mekala  *
- S Shashank  *
- Tannmay Yadav  *
- Will Barnes  *
- Yudhik Agrawal  *
- codetriage-readme-bot  *

Where a \* indicates their first contribution to SunPy.

In addition to the contributions to the core SunPy library, we would like to
thank Kolja Glogowski for his help with the JSOC project, and welcome his
package 'drms' as a SunPy affiliated package, which is now powering our JSOC
client.  Finally, we would like to thank David Pérez-Suárez and Brigitta Sipocz,
who are leading the GSOC process for OpenAstronomy, which is of massive benefit
to the SunPy community.


SunPy 0.9 can be installed from pip or conda using the following commands

using conda::

  $ conda config channels --append conda-forge
  $ conda install sunpy

or using pip::

  $ pip install sunpy


and updated using conda::

  $ conda update sunpy

or pip::

  $ pip install -U sunpy

