SunPy 0.2
=========

.. post:: 27 November 2012
   :author: Stuart Mumford
   :tags: 0.2, sunpy
   :category: Release

It has been a busy year but a lot of code later SunPy version 0.2.0 has arrived!
This new version of SunPy is quite a change from the old 0.1 release, a few things have changed that make it not backwards compatible, however we feel that the changes are for the better!
14 people have helped to make this release of SunPy a big step forwards, between them they have added 1200 commits to the GitHub page.

Below is the main features that have been added for this release:

* Completely re-written plotting routines for most of the core datatypes.
* JPEG 2000 support as an input file type.
* Improved documentation for much of the code base, including re-written installation instructions.
* New lightcurve object
* LYRA support
* GOES/XRS support
* SDO/EVE support
* New Spectrum and Spectrogram object (in development)
* Spectrogram plotting routines
* Callisto spectrum type and support
* STEREO/SWAVES support
* Map Object
* Added support for LASCO, Yohkoh/XRT maps
* A new CompositeMap object for overlaying maps
* Resample method
* Superpixel method
* The addition of the ``rotate()`` method for 2D maps.

The people who have contributed to this release are:

* Florian Mayer
* Keith Hughitt
* Jack Ireland
* Steven Christe
* Stuart Mumford
* Albert Shih
* Matt Earnshaw
* Nicky Chorley
* David Perez-Suarez
* Andrew Inglis
* Russell Hewett
* Thomas Robitaille
* Jordan Ballew
* Arseniy Kustov

Thanks to all of them, and may version 0.2 prove very useful to you.
