---
layout: post
title: SunPy 0.7
author: Stuart Mumford
---

SunPy 0.7 has arrived! This release is a culmination of about 10 months of work from 27 different people. This release brings many [changes](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/blob/0.7/CHANGELOG.md), the highlights are:

* Python 3.4 and 3.5 support. This is the first version of SunPy to support
  Python 3, we recommend that users start to consider moving to Python 3, please
  report any issues you may have.
* New coordinate framework. The new `sunpy.coordinates` module provides a
  high-level interface to converting between different physical coordinate
  systems such as Helioprojective and Heliographic.
* New `draw_rectangle` and `draw_contours` helpers for `Map`.
* New functions `flareclass_to_flux` and `flux_to_flareclass` which convert
  between GOES flux to GOES class numbers (e.g. X12, M3.4).
* Support for masks in SunPy `Map` and `MapCube`.


For this version of SunPy we have started building our [conda](http://conda.pydata.org/docs/) packages on the excellent [conda forge](http://conda-forge.github.io) service. This means you need to add the conda-forge channel to your conda installation. If you have never installed SunPy before we recommend you follow our [installation instruction](http://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/installation). If you are upgrading from a previous release run the following two commands if you installed via ``conda``:
    conda config --add channels conda-forge
    conda upgrade sunpy

If you installed via ``pip`` then you can upgrade with:

    pip install -U sunpy


The following excellent people contributed to SunPy 0.7 (a * indicates their first contribution):

    Stuart Mumford
    Pritish Chakraborty
    Steven Christe
    Jack Ireland
    Brigitta Sipocz
    David Perez-Suarez
    Punyaslok Pattnaik *
    Michael S Kirk *
    Andrew Leonard
    Alex Hamilton
    Andrew Inglis
    Daniel Ryan
    Sally Dacie *
    Sanskar Modi *
    Albert Y. Shih
    Erik M. Bray
    Larry Manley
    Priyank Lodha *
    Nabil Freij
    Ankit *
    Igor Babuschkin *
    Ole Streicher *
    Simon Liedtke
    Sudarshan Konge *
    Tessa D. Wilkinson *
    Thomas Robitaille
    yasintoda *
    

Happy Pythoning!
